In this lesson we're going to run through some common errors within Javascript.
So showing you quite a lot of different javascript syntaxes and some of the common errors.
So let's set a variable Let's go into our editor and set a variable.
And I'm going to give this variable a string value of Hello.
And then next I'm going to set up a condition and I'm going to check to see if it's equal to hello.
And if it is then I get a console log that works.
So take a look at this statement and do you spot the error.
Do you see what's wrong.
And do you see what the value of hello is actually being said as.
So take a look at this error and tell me if you can spot the air.
And if you can just make a mental note of that and let's try that out and see if it works.
Or do you think that this will work.
That there's no errors.
And if you said it all work it will actually run and it will work.
So let's see if we can check the value of hello hello world.
Let's refresh it.
And now let's see what the value of A is.
And we see that it's actually.
Hello world.
So what do you think happened there.
And if you said that we only set the one equal sign so we only assigned it and instead of actually doing
our comparison our check here we're actually doing an assignment operator.
So always make sure that if you are doing that condition that you are doing it with the two equal signs.
So this is often a common mistake and this happens many many times within javascript where people will
just leave out the equal signs.
So let's do one more comparison here.
And this is another important one to keep in mind that we know we saw earlier that variables have different
types and if we were to compare B to C so do you think that we're actually going to log anything out
in the console.
So even though one is a string one is a number.
When I refresh the page are we going to see equal or are we not going to see any message.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
So let's refresh the page and we do see that it is equal because we're doing the comparison here and
we're checking to see if they're equivalent.
So we're not actually checking the type in in order to check the type.
That's where we need to do the absolute value.
So do the three equal signs for that.
And more often than not a lot of people leave this.
And it can lead to errors within your javascript.
So always be mindful of the fact that if you are doing these types of conditions use the three.
And also compare the type just to make sure that they are truly equal and that there are no differences
between the variables.
If you're looking to do this type of comparison so go ahead and open up your editor and just practice
adding in the two equal signs and then the three equal signs in various conditional statements and set
a bunch of different variables here that you have to work with and practice with.